README.md, before:

# immers

ActivityPub server for immers.space - a decentralized virtual reality metaverse platform powered by Mozilla Hubs and activitypub-express.


## Installation

We provide a [Docker Hub image](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/immersspace/immers) for immers,
and the [immers-app repo](https://github.com/immers-space/immers-app) contains
docker-compose configuration, configuration script, and deploy instructions.
If you prefer to run immers without docker, it can be deployed just like
any other NodeJS & MongoDB app.

## Configuration

Immers looks for the following configuration values as environment variables
or in a `.env` file in the project root.

## Required configuration

Variable | Value | Example
--- | --- | ---
name | Name of your immer | Immers Space
domain | Domain name for your immers server | immers.space
hub | Domain name for your Mozilla Hubs Cloud or other connected immersive experience | hub.immers.space
smtpHost | Mail service domain (for password resets) | smtp.sendgrid.net
smtpPort | Mail service port | 587
smtpUser | Mail service username | apikey
smtpPassword | Mail service password |
sessionSecret | Secret key for session cookie encryption | *Automatically generated when [using setup script](https://github.com/immers-space/immers-app#step-1---setup)*
easySecret | Secret key for email token encryption | *Automatically generated when [using setup script](https://github.com/immers-space/immers-app#step-1---setup)*

## Optional configuration

Variable | Value | Default
--- | --- | ---
homepage | Redirect root html requests to this url | Use `hub` url
googleFont | Font family name from to fetch from Google Fonts for immer name header | Monoton
backgroundColor | CSS color | #a6549d
backgroundImage | Image file | vapor.png
imageAttributionText | Attribution for backgroundImage, if needed | Vectors by Vecteezy
imageAttributionUrl | Attribution for backgroundImage, if needed | https://www.vecteezy.com/free-vector/vector
monetizationPointer | [Payment pointer](https://webmonetization.org/docs/ilp-wallets/#payment-pointers) for Web Monetization on login & profile pages | Immers Space organization wallet
dbName | Database name to use with MongoDb | mongodb
port | Port number for immers sever | 8081
smtpFrom | From address for emails | noreplay@mail.`domain`
keyPath, certPath, caPath | Local development only. Relative paths to certificate files | None

## Local dev

immers

* Clone and install immers
```
git clone https://github.com/immers-space/immers.git
cd immers
npm ci
```
* Install a self-signed certificate
```
mkdir certs
sudo openssl req -x509 -nodes -days 365 -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout certs/server.key -out certs/server.cert
```
* Install [mongodb](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/installation/)
* Run immer with `npm run dev` 

hubs

* Clone and install our fork
```
git clone https://github.com/immers-space/hubs.git
cd hubs
git checkout immers-integration
npm ci
npm run build:client
```
* Run hub with either `npm run dev` (use Hubs dev networking servers) or `npm run start` (to connect to your hubs cloud networking server).
* Visit you immer at `https://localhost:8081`, approve the certificate exception, get automatically forwarded to your hub at `https://localhost:8080`, approve another certificate exception, create a room, and you will be redirected to login or register with your immer.

Default immers server is `https://localhost:8081`, override with entry `IMMERS_SERVER` in hubs repo root folder `.env` file.

If working on immers server web client, run both `npm run dev:client` and `npm run dev` at the same time.

Commit message:

Add explainer and configurable e-mail opt in form link to registration page

README.md, after:

# immers

ActivityPub server for immers.space - a decentralized virtual reality metaverse platform powered by Mozilla Hubs and activitypub-express.


## Installation

We provide a [Docker Hub image](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/immersspace/immers) for immers,
and the [immers-app repo](https://github.com/immers-space/immers-app) contains
docker-compose configuration, configuration script, and deploy instructions.
If you prefer to run immers without docker, it can be deployed just like
any other NodeJS & MongoDB app.

## Configuration

Immers looks for the following configuration values as environment variables
or in a `.env` file in the project root.

## Required configuration

Variable | Value | Example
--- | --- | ---
name | Name of your immer | Immers Space
domain | Domain name for your immers server | immers.space
hub | Domain name for your Mozilla Hubs Cloud or other connected immersive experience | hub.immers.space
smtpHost | Mail service domain (for password resets) | smtp.sendgrid.net
smtpPort | Mail service port | 587
smtpUser | Mail service username | apikey
smtpPassword | Mail service password |
sessionSecret | Secret key for session cookie encryption | *Automatically generated when [using setup script](https://github.com/immers-space/immers-app#step-1---setup)*
easySecret | Secret key for email token encryption | *Automatically generated when [using setup script](https://github.com/immers-space/immers-app#step-1---setup)*

## Optional configuration

Variable | Value | Default
--- | --- | ---
homepage | Redirect root html requests to this url | Use `hub` url
googleFont | Font family name from to fetch from Google Fonts for immer name header | Monoton
backgroundColor | CSS color | #a6549d
backgroundImage | Image file | vapor.png
imageAttributionText | Attribution for backgroundImage, if needed | Vectors by Vecteezy
imageAttributionUrl | Attribution for backgroundImage, if needed | https://www.vecteezy.com/free-vector/vector
monetizationPointer | [Payment pointer](https://webmonetization.org/docs/ilp-wallets/#payment-pointers) for Web Monetization on login & profile pages | Immers Space organization wallet
dbName | Database name to use with MongoDb | mongodb
port | Port number for immers sever | 8081
smtpFrom | From address for emails | noreplay@mail.`domain`
emailOptInURL | Link to an opt-in form for email updates to show on registration page | None
emailOptInParam | Query parameter for `emailOptInURL` for the e-mail address | Use opt-in url without inserting e-mail
emailOptInNameParam | Query parameter for `emailOptInURL` for the name | Use opt-in url without inserting name
keyPath, certPath, caPath | Local development only. Relative paths to certificate files | None

## Local dev

immers

* Clone and install immers
```
git clone https://github.com/immers-space/immers.git
cd immers
npm ci
```
* Install a self-signed certificate
```
mkdir certs
sudo openssl req -x509 -nodes -days 365 -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout certs/server.key -out certs/server.cert
```
* Install [mongodb](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/installation/)
* Run immer with `npm run dev` 

hubs

* Clone and install our fork
```
git clone https://github.com/immers-space/hubs.git
cd hubs
git checkout immers-integration
npm ci
npm run build:client
```
* Run hub with either `npm run dev` (use Hubs dev networking servers) or `npm run start` (to connect to your hubs cloud networking server).
* Visit you immer at `https://localhost:8081`, approve the certificate exception, get automatically forwarded to your hub at `https://localhost:8080`, approve another certificate exception, create a room, and you will be redirected to login or register with your immer.

Default immers server is `https://localhost:8081`, override with entry `IMMERS_SERVER` in hubs repo root folder `.env` file.

If working on immers server web client, run both `npm run dev:client` and `npm run dev` at the same time.
